So let's take a look at the three set implementation classes we talked about in the last video with
some code to create a new project, and I've called the previous project generics and collections,
but I've created a new project just to separate the code of core collections.
We need to create a new class here called collection tests.
Can I it in the car?
Well, so this class just sets up some tests using the collection interface methods, so we've got a
number of static generic methods here allowing us to use any type of collection you can see there.
We've got to do stuff with collection.
We've also got perform functions as well as perform functions string.
Now, these methods are designed to exercise the following collection methods as an element at a null
and at a duplicate element, remove an element, remove and now perform functions for string or integer
specifically at all contains.
So testing success and failure, remove all and retain or so be testing these methods with different
collections in addition to set.
So I will leave this class for the moment.
What we'll do is we're going to create another class in a different source for to exercise these tests
using the different types of sets.
So we're going to do is create this new class and call it set example.
What I can see here, what I've done, I've actually created this main method, you see, we're creating
an initializing hash set with a type argument of integer based on our initial data online, 16, and
then it's invoking the static method to stuff with collection on the collections test class we created
a minute or so ago.
So let's run this now.
OK, there's the output.
All right, I'm going to leave that airport on screen while we talk about this.
So what I can confirm from these results is that the order of elements in a hash set is unpredictable
and not related to either the way the elements were entered or the natural order of the elements.
Secondly, we can confirm that a single no value is permitted in a set.
And thirdly, we can confirm that duplicate values are not permitted.
It has set the ADD method returns false if it attempts to insert a duplicate element.
Right, so back in the car, Dale, what we'll do is we'll run the same methods on a tray set.
But a postal coded in the mind method at the bottom.
I'm going to accept that import.
So I could say that the only difference here is this time we've got a tree set recording the same do
stuff with collection method.
If we run this.
You could say, well, first they had the hatch set data and now we've got to trace it so we can't leave
this airport on screen.
We can confirm that the tree sets elements are ordered numerically called the natural order.
We can confirm that the tree set cannot contain any null elements.
And our pointer exception is thrown if an attempt to adonal is made.
Third, we can confirm that a trace it does not contain duplicate elements and a duplicate with add
returns false.
If the element being added is already found in the list and forth, all other methods execute similarly
to have set.
So back in the cold again, let's get to the third set implementation and linked have set as before,
will pay some covid at the bottom of the class or part of the method, I should say, separate import.
Very similar, as you could say with the previous examples, but using a linked set this time still
called the same method, do stuff with collection.
So let's run this.
This, the output for linked hasit.
So leaving that on screen, we can observe from this output.
But firstly, Link has said has the following attributes, a link test set is ordered by the insertion
order of the elements.
Secondly, a single now element is allowed in a linked has set.
And thirdly, duplicate elements are not allowed in a linked hasit.
Swinging back to the car.
What are we going to do now is open some code and demonstrate that sets of different implementation
types can be considered equal using a Derechos method call if they have matching elements, Pacer's
coded so we can say the test and verify with our equals with in parentheses looking up here just to
follow the law on it.
That's how set and t define our line.
Twenty five is our it.
You can see that the output from this segment of codas below confirms that the two sets are considered
equal regardless of the specific implementation top of the set.
Obviously here we're comparing hasset versus a tree set.
Let's see in the video here, I will start the next video for looking at how those are evaluated with
let's see you in the next video.